All Hands call for ipfs frogs a 20-17
Mars is moderate thank you
yeah welcome we don't have a lot of
urgent items today but if you do have
anything you'd like to talk about please
edit and we get to it in a bit otherwise
let's start with a little I could um you
there must typing furiously the V thank
you so let's start with with around what
everybody's good to in in the past week
and I don't know if we have any fixed
order for it so I'm just gonna start I'm
just gonna pick someone Victor that's
cool and then we could just go trouble
so I currently are looking into a bug
with these four piers in JSI TFS brought
in some additional chests some tests or
not specific enough so we introduced a
bug where we listed all the addresses is
one address for pure fixing thoughts and
time I discovered on different bug I
managed to introduce small new key into
thoughts as well other than thoughts
I also noticed a week or two ago that's
we haven't published again the source
code for our discourse information on
the configuration and everything and I
also notice there are some different
things of what's deployed compared to
what's written in the source code so I'm
trying to unify those so we can have the
configuration checked into a source code
what else I've also added the monitoring
2jsi so now we can have
yes ipfs missed any more dashboards I
started looking into how to deploy a
multiple JSON fast notes as well
probably have to speak a bit more with
Lars to figure it out together with a
new debug infrastructure the forces
birthday I think that's it
oh no great thank you
the next would be David Christian what's
up guys I started teaching a class last
week so I've been pretty bogged down
with that but um I'm also I've been
working on cluster a bit I'm just
getting it but the are pushed through
and um once I finished what I'm working
on with cluster I'm going to start
working on more tests lab and bit swap
related stuff from the most work sounds
good thank you
okay so I'm just gonna thank you
everybody is showing up on my screen
stuff Thank You Lars so I have been
goofing off last week I was on vacation
but we're working on some ways to record
calls as well as video and store them in
ifs and utilize file coin once that's
available
so what we're working on here in Phoenix
is more towards the application side and
I'm just getting back on the grid but
we'll keep you guys posted as to how
that progresses and hopefully we'll have
a demo and then not too just a future
okay
[Music]
is that - that's everyone so I've been
working on various things the most
recent one was my work on crypto because
turns out web crypto is giving us more
heartache than we had hoped for so I've
been working on that today and doing
research and I think some things
experimentations the other things I've
worked on a fortune
eight year there is a release of Adria
we're currently working through various
issues of operating the various refers
to that but it is much better now so
hopefully it will be less painful
once that migration has happened other
than that oh yeah I finished upgrading
for anybody who was interested in
Bitcoin
I finished upgrading go I peeled the BTC
to be able to ingest segwayed compare a
seg woodbox because that was broken
since the new editions of the new format
was changed a couple days ago that's
working now again so that's nice yeah
you think that's that's most of what I
think Jim okay great
Matt you've seen a solar eclipse last
week completely yeah I flew to Tennessee
to see the Eclipse and though I passed
through Nashville twice I failed to see
Johnny punch he graciously was gonna
host me at his house but and you know
camping in the woods longer than planned
so but it was awesome so yeah I took
some time off this last week so I
haven't been doing so much right now I'm
in Boston to co-host a workshop tomorrow
with people from edgy than nominal data
governance initiative where they were
behind
the grassroots organizing with a to
rescue events and and all of those
efforts and so this workshop is all
based around showing people how to use
tooling they've built which uses ipfs
how to use that tooling to hold copies
of the data that you rely on how to find
whether there are already copies of data
that you rely on stored somewhere on the
destroyed distributed web and also how
to add information about those data on
to the district onto the distributed web
so it's basically starting to build
metadata patterns and cultural patterns
and incorporating institutions into
using the distributed web to hold and
redistribute data that previously was
held only in centralized ways so that
and yeah I've been working on a bunch of
stuff there's the discussions in in
discourse about content policies which
leads to interesting considerations of
like long term how do we want to be
approaching that as a community and how
do we want to be stealing that so I've
been working on some of that stuff
behind the scenes it's what's been
keeping me busy exciting
alright my turn so I started writing
some notes on the things that I was
going to mention so they did forget
anything so first thing that's really
mentioned I feel us are working on
really cool awesome like compiling
crypto primitives from rusts to Azzam so
that we can script in the browser and
essentially if you are a side effects
user today and you're using jessica's in
your browser one of the things that's
really important to know that you
realized basically this last week is
that if you load a webpage from an on
[Music]
it means point from an IP model maintain
s if s tries to do any crypto primitive
it will fail and it will fail with a
very cryptic error because we we
completely missed the fact that like the
browser just simply locks at API if the
resource is being loaded with all HTTP
and so you get somewhere about like
private key something or generate key
function is out there we are working on
it like we now are aware and that's why
I like reading this new optional by just
just getting cooler primitives to
compile from rusts to JavaScript to get
something that is fast and if that's
what we need another solution is using
javascript shims and what we want to
have in the short term like spare morale
is just have better error logging so
that the users understand what's going
on we saw at least like for issues of
people like getting this problem and it
was like actually an hour the same time
for weeks like no one ever this issue
and and suddenly everyone started white
clothing just IP perhaps for my beads
and it was very hard to reproduce
because every local host test or like
ipfs that i you / IP fest so much that
we did always work perfectly but yeah
i'll post a link to the description of
the problem on the nodes go ahead the
recording my connection which is
catching the recording slowed down right
when you said what is the essential
problem when you make a connection when
you make an insecure connection what
happens the essential problem is if you
load a web page that uses Jessop FS from
a non secure endpoint that means you are
loading a web page from HTTP and not
HTTP the browser like it's a web crypto
standard definition will lock the web
crypto API and not let you call any web
crypto cops so simply cannot use those
primitives they literally are not there
it's not even like the browser tells you
web crypto is locked because it's an
results in an unsecured endpoint it just
says okay this is this is an exist it's
an undefined right and the finally is
other functions classical there's a new
more fun subtle motion to this why we
never realize this is that on localhost
there is exemption from for this so as
long as you serve non-https on localhost
you're fine and also the exemption
doesn't touch like there's exemption for
localhost there is no exemption for like
local like piece so someone might be
trying like having ipfs node in local
network and it works from the co-host
and it doesn't work from his second
laptop that he has next to that is using
the know yeah I know I also think not
all browsers and foresters actually I
think I'm dick Roman forces is friendly
it it mostly K like it mostly became
standard because of Chrome well anyhow
alright so this is an issue there is a
solution we do the crypto in JavaScript
or we do the crypto which will be in as
ingest by comparing you from rest and
week we got this just called work up a
surprise and if you are getting sir this
is the issue and there is an issue now
on the notes for you to track the
solution cool so the next one that I
have to show you is ideally deep types
so last Thursday we had the first
meeting of what we are calling like a
howl ends for IPL david ives there is
like multiple verticals that people have
been showing interests to discuss taco
to implement to really do more research
of one on IPL deal and and so now we
have a call every thursday and for no
three p.m. EDC
at 3 p.m. UTC and part we that call we
identified things that need to be done I
know that Steven my turnip I don't like
he's worked there but what I did since
last Thursday was
adopting all of the proposals for
presenting the format's back so as you
know we have this interface formats back
that enables people to implement more
formats to be supported by IP LD from
the AXI war doctor above atrium I know
that because he's now working on it
it's pretty awesome and now we are
giving a new update to that spec adding
more functions and updating some of the
old ones and I would really appreciate
if someone if everyone that is
interested in a LD and that's a consumer
by PLD to go check it out to make sure
that like we are not missing something
it would be a ailing counselor notes for
this column I don't see any hands going
to go to my next item next item I'm just
gonna stop you right there let's finish
the round okay okay sorry this is kind
of my Oh Mike things I've been working
on yeah it's just good to finish the
round quickly first and then and then go
into into do topics deeper okay thank
you
the next one would be Martin yeah we
okay so I didn't get that much done last
week i well the coop sue discovered some
men the middle vulnerability with the
current state of my quick implementation
so I decided that the best way to move
forward with this is to first do all the
interface changes in Joel idiot appear
and then much the quick specific stuff
later so I'm hoping that we can get the
interface changes reviewed this eat know
that Jeremy's bed and then for the
actual quick merge will probably take
another another couple of
month because I have to keep them in TLS
1.34 quick which will not be an easy
task but a rewarding one I hope yeah
definitely
okay awesome thank you
next up is Demetri hey guys so last week
I spent some time working on still
working on circuit kind of trying to get
everything cleaned up and ready for
release
unfortunately didn't get as much time as
I expected to work in it I was gonna
have a demo for today but that's not
gonna it's gonna happen
fortunately but I am shooting for
getting everything ready and prepped for
possibly release either this week or
next week or whenever we're going with
the next JavaScript so if everything
goes smooth and we get everything
reviewed and and I get everything
cleaned up as well for that day and we
should have separate ready and mostly
that's been what I've been up to this
trick is looking a lot better so I'll be
able to spend a lot more time on Days
okay okay awesome thank you you show me
hey yeah so I took some time off last
week to go drive over somewhere and
watch the Sun go away for a minute was
pretty cool definitely recommended after
that been getting back and mostly just
spending time reviewing people's code
there's a lot of other people's code
through you it's pretty great pretty
happy with it all um and I look forward
to continuing to review other people's
code because there's still a lot of it
you guys are fast
don't stop
okay so it's great Steven I was sorry
last week I was working on a proposal
for reorganizing a the interfaces in go
idea vest so that the the dag in the
block store and everything fits together
you can find this on the
ipfs slash notes repository it's issue
255 i'd like comments and feedback the
current issues are that when we try to
improve or implement up i feel of these
selectors the current system just won't
work because exchanges and things like
that's what need access to IP LD at that
point not block or not the block service
because they think you look like query i
bill t so we can have to reorder stuff
anyways i've also noticed that a lot of
people are complaining about various
parts systems and like this piece is
broken but I haven't seen any like
overarching plans to try to fix
everything
so basically description Lily what's
wrong what or what is always fixing in
that's it okay okay thank you I'm
hearing an echo for myself
even are you used to live your mic on
thank you
next up is visto welcome by the way hi
guys I've been working on my side
project mostly because I'm going to ICF
be next week I'm giving the patient skin
work soap on some dates scheme related
stuff but you don't have started
thinking about the next little thing so
basically we'll be discussing about a
service to facilitate service discovery
it will DT so basically to formalize
energy of by the record other than that
okay next week among nice your feet just
okay great next up is Lucas yeah so I
studied mentioned currently working on
Jace I peel the handlers for gates and
that's pretty much it
it's it's getting kind of working so it
might be done like Wednesday maybe it
will be functional
he appeared the centralized github in
the browser
that's a such prediction
that's one of the coolest air features
I'm so excited for it
who's left kuba Caban me very good first
kuba so last week was kind of weird
because I was reviewing lots of code
I've noticed one problem with one PRI
was leading people it has improved
coverage collector go ipfs there's a
small problem there were because I'm
trying to do garbage collect so there
was waste problem in garbage collector
between MF s and garbage collector but
it was very small the window is very
small but with how I do garbage
collection currently did when there was
much much bigger so I have to refactor
that pout part also for like last few
days I was looking into new packard MSE
manager from go it's called Deb and yeah
that's that's it and reviewing with some
stuff so Lars take it away yeah thank
you so up in a bit sick last week but
I'm getting better
I fixed the bug in the Gateway
deployment that was kind of annoying
because well it was buffering responses
to disk and so if somebody down on a
large file then all these gigabytes were
buffer to disk for just a few seconds
and that led to interesting oscillations
in free disk space but that's fixed I'm
writing a bit on path addressing and
URLs past couple of days made some notes
I'm going to turn that into prose and
that we didn't met are gonna like it I
think our mad well you mentioned that
workshop tomorrow I remembered something
about a distributed web maturity model
that I wanted to write yes and so I'm
glad I'm gonna try and get to there
today some notes but just haven't turned
them into anything readable so yeah that
and and
forever breakthrough with the new
gateway gateway infrastructure last
night and automatic TLS certificates in
particular I'm gotten would be
update on web crypto we covered that I
think right and we covered IP LD deep
dives and the next up is a JSI PFS
really is all right
but then again yeah this'll be past zero
25.2 was released it was a patch release
so no big like issue with a lot of flair
because mostly like things stay the same
but better
there were fixes that were bubbled up
the we peer to peer tree to beat swap
and then pictures that happen in bit
swap that were below up to just a few FS
we already got some reports from our
users that now they cb2 up faster and
also more reliable there was a couple of
issues that were open that now I'll not
stay anymore so that's pretty exciting
you're using Jessica fess to make sure
to do this patch a bit because you might
see some significant improvements API
wise and feature wise same with the
secrets that like if you actually go
experimental HT true it ends on an HT
but as the flag suggests is still spring
experimental the next item on the agenda
so like if no one asked questions on
this second the next one the question
today yeah
does it does it light your browser on
fire when you turn the experimental DHT
option on the only thing that really
well because like so we have been
getting a lot of reports and I just want
to be clear on that all by people seeing
a lot of browser resource consumption
and and there's like two main reasons
for that one of them is web RTC like
where RT C is a monster consuming with
of the browser
like in every single plication I like
open there today
video chat I'll keep you in and so on
they will consume a lot of users from
the browser and we use WebRTC we open a
bunch of connections and then we you
like easy to say like all of these tiny
packets with multiples of them right and
because we do the routing
the main Trev it means that the browser
main tread released becomes stretched to
process everything that it needs to
process in order to decide which things
to send to which connection
unfortunately like most browser vendors
only see web RTC as a video and audio
transport and they like some special
code paths that benefit those use cases
but still again like you put your
regular web video chat app and you will
see a lot of reserves being consumed so
that's that's an issue that like takes
me to the next point of connection
closing the other issue we've like
browsers that consume a lot of with
Jessica passed up a lot of resources it
is really the fact that like people are
putting their jessica festival on the
main trail and like again the main trail
is like a single event loop and like we
do a lot of operations we do a lot of
stuff like we do quit though we do like
browsing we do like there is so much
stuff going on that putting that CPU
bound cpu intensive operations on the
same thread of our 0 UI it is clear is
expected to see some slowness and some
some fight like the browser fighting
with itself to be able to respond to all
the requests so what we want really is
like web workers and service workers the
thing that sucks is like web workers and
service workers don't support web RTC
and so this is like go back and forth of
like how to move forward in a way that's
like really nice for the users I think
they don't have to find these problems
large with just simple background pages
from an extension work simple background
pages from an extension that should be
again a better solution than running
everything on a main thread but it still
has the same problem that like what RTC
doesn't exist there Oh got it got it
so we have the issue that if you put it
into the background it also will crash
because whoever receives everything then
it crashes
okay if we actually because as if you
currently put JSI PFS in a regular page
and just put it into the background it
will eventually crash and burn the
recent mention what I meant was a page
opened by an extension like not a lot of
content but a background page right
right yeah but that would probably just
the crash and burn even if we care about
is available it is two things so what
were suggesting is like extensions
actually you have a process for
themselves right like they if they even
if they process questions that you can
restart in doesn't affect the main page
like the app of the user can still run
and free though you're right like there
is definitely do resource consumption
and also do to promote gracias following
policies so if you haven't read an issue
like if you put a tab or if you put a
window like your standard app on your OS
on front of chrome and if it covers the
scene if you can part of the tab chrome
will stop that just like blocking right
so I'll have the the stuff that like the
node is trying to do to be like very
fast to like for example receive one
place and process which blocks it as to
send it back if you'll stop all of that
and I'm like when you take your app out
of front of chrome and like you you show
the time again then the chrome will give
resources back to that page and now you
have like thousands of messages waiting
for that thing to the process right so
it's just like madness for for the for
the nodes to two-and-oh and that gives
which to some weird situations Firefox
is different though and and this is
again connected to yes it is very hard
to do these things in the browser but we
can be so much better in a way that we
manage resources right now we are we
have a very good grass if policy where
we open all the connections that we can
and as we know from go ipfs we need to
find a way to close connections
graciously and effectively because the
ones that aren't used and
you just happened to notice that in
Jessica's faster because it's a
constrained environment with a lot of
rules and restrictions and like a lesser
a smaller number of connections makes a
bigger impact than like for example go
ipfs that has access to full machine
resources so yeah the next item on the
agenda that I added is connection
closing and I open an issue describing
these problems and more and this should
be like one of the priorities for us to
get then at least like it might not be
perfect but like we definitely should
not let the node crash by running out of
resources I would argue that it's better
to say hey like can't really open a new
connection already have so many might
pick one to drop then just like weather
knows kill itself because you just
becomes too eager to open connections to
other nodes as Jeremy once put it I
guess ipfs is a social butterfly like
what stuck with everyone robots and
problems but yeah so pay attention to
that issue or if you have ideas comments
suggestions please do share them we
don't have to discuss this in detail
here I think it will take more than an
hour but yeah like the blogging keys on
the notes so yeah any questions
thoughts ideas matter this is actually
you you switch from the previous one
quickly you mentioned that it sucks that
web ik web workers don't support web RTC
the people who are working on web worker
and web extension spects are really
receptive to feedback and we do have a
github issue this list that where we're
trying to collect the list of water that
they basically repeatedly asked us what
are the things you would want changed
because they will look into changing it
so make sure to record those things on
this issue so that we can pass that
information on we do just like if you
search through the WebRTC about that we
see an ITF you will see a lot of emails
well but a lot maybe some emails from me
for us and others that were like asking
for more than a year now maybe two years
even to put WebRTC on service workers
and web workers and unfortunately the
spec community was always very rug or
real attempts to consider that feature
because they again like they really
privileged like video and audio
connections and for that what about you
still works well because video are
connections have special flex inside the
browser's let's say this connection
should not ever stop which is all the
same for other channels I agree we we
should like just again raise this
problem something that they need to fix
but it is something that we've been
talking with them for more than a year
now for sure as a substantial problem of
enabling peer-to-peer on the web this
one into sure that good did someone say
something
go on then
what's next oh you have a demo right
yeah beautiful but it works so when you
share
you it is yeah initial screen something
doesn't have to look beautiful in order
to be beautiful I guess I was already
including those cases so you can see my
screen this is just the browser brave
browser a repo we in a branch called
feed ipfs and if we locate the
extensions folder we look there's like
three extensions here one is brave brave
the brave browser basically is an
extension around itself and then there's
like a torrent extension and ipfs
extension and if you look at the IP path
extension you have the manifest here
basically describes what it is in like
the logo and you also have some
JavaScript and the JavaScript main J's
which is the entry point there's two
things reducers to per call and worse
ipfs and d web and once that happens
basically would set the nodes and I
always catch the same ash because I've
been focusing on figuring out content
security public policy problems but I'll
go more in depth net there cat slash and
then replies back to the response to the
request that someone made on these
protocols and we the content up - so to
run brave you have always to run a
watcher that like is constantly building
the app for like checking if there's
changes and building it and then you
also have to start the actual process
here this should start brave but I
suppose if you feel free to ask
questions as I go because some of these
things take time for some reason as you
see it better browser take some time -
alone so if I go here
about the extensions you can see that
because excitation is here it's kind of
nice and if I go to IP Fisk on such
flash and I can type anything here
because I don't I'm not really paying
attention now to the content of this I'm
just cutting the same ass over and over
again and now what this is doing is all
these steps starting in your notes
waiting for the middle to get ready
connecting to the bootstrapper nodes and
carrying this ash and again once it gets
that B sash doing the bit swap thing it
replies back using this car back here
and yeah like so they ask that I was
welding you just hate right it's like a
very simple old world of Jessica fests
running and this force falls directly
what was your proposal this is like
Jessica that's running in a background
process of a chrome like extension but
in the brave browser so this is pretty
exciting like we have been working on
this for well maybe a couple of weeks
beat on and off but it's possible now
like pretty much all the issues that we
had to make this happen
were content security policy related
things if you if you check here the IP
address and then index.html you see that
I don't have
I removed completely the security policy
and the other way that I would add the
content security policy would be by
white listening white we see listing of
listening white we think all of the
nodes that we connect and start up so
all of the bootstrapper nodes which is
not really an ideal solution because
when you are running a nodes you really
want the freedom to connect to any nodes
that's on the network that's on a public
IP that's in the public domain and with
color security policy which is a
required mechanism and that's something
that I'm working with the brave team who
understands the implications right now
is how can we ensure that this extension
runs in a constrained
in a secure environment but without
without having the the restriction that
the content security policy explicitly
makes which is once you add even one
line of content security policy you have
to declare all of the endpoints that's
that African dial before hands before it
loads and there is a way to
automatically load new things so so yeah
again telling Jess if you're
spreading on the Brit browse here expect
next week next thing I want to come back
will actually buy clothing several ashes
and webpages and so on as I said I've
been very focus on this content security
policy days but yeah it is happening who
were also integration I'm really excited
about this I don't know if you notice
any questions there's a like a big PR
like so if you go to my user account
there's a fork and then a PR directly to
the main repo on the brave organization
and like the PR basically describes the
happy cat venture I've been on just like
to figure out how to ads the protocol
and learn how to solve the CSP how to
get the Chrome extension to give me the
ability to register your protocol and
that was another so journey I see that
you have your hand up so in your code
you saw you buffered the entire I would
put it the hash before passing it to the
browser that's not a requirement is it
right now it is I actually already
requested the team to give me a
streaming handler right now the only
thing that move on which is for
collection supports so that's exactly it
was appointing yeah well from what I
understand it is totally doable to do
this streaming thing they just abandon
sure it's a security concern from the
team like they they were
yeah I haven't received a clear message
on that I get to not be a problem it
should be just like when - today
but yeah another thing that I want is to
be able to also like send a webpage for
example I would love for an IP fest file
to build building and like - just like
clothes first the webpage the back shows
a progress bar or something and they
just see now that page to share that
because it's been all done like if you
if you're downloading a PDF for example
you want some signal to the user you
want to tell the user something so you
want to be able to like like through
WebSockets or some some IPC thing to
signal to the webpage that and when it's
like yeah so update and what more
running J's ipfs in electron apps it's
been bubbling up in in discourse this
week yeah you've been you've been
pushing it forward so I just wonder if
you could give it up to you
sure so the there is so using your
electron or using any electron works if
you use on the render process so that is
equivalent to a browser page on the
electron which is more or less what is
happening here it's very similar to
these contexts that I'm running inside
the browser what doesn't work yet is
running just ipfs in the node.js process
also known as the main process of
electron it is mostly due to our use of
some native dependencies that electron
doesn't rebuild
them well for their own version or like
their own internal OGS version and so
this solution there is or just to figure
out how to build those ID dependencies
for electron which there's like some
tooling there's like electron rebuild
and there's re collar cooling but like
so far I haven't been successful with
any of that I know there's like many
packages in DOJ's land that are native
that work with electron and there's
others that don't work another solution
is just to remove all of the native
dependencies and I just use JavaScript
pure JavaScript and like ever build of
Giuseppe ifs that might be slower and
like you know it's like covering sin
might be slower but it works for the
native the main process the node.js
process of electron if people want to
run JSI PFS they're the the other thing
that is interesting the notes in the
conversation of electron is if you want
to run on the node.js process and knows
about defense another thing that you can
do is run a go IP best note we've at the
SAFS api client so that's what orbit did
for a long time right like orbit was
always running a go ipfs nodes we just
BFS API client and electron has a very
cool feature where you can pass you can
grab an instance of an object and say it
sends this to the other process and what
it does creates automatically an RPC
that links any call that you do on the
renderer process to the node.js process
so so very long time like orbit was
running and like doing everything on the
render process but the nose was
associated and running on a little J's
process I can write more na ki fee if
you I'd like to have a meeting and
people are asking for this I can write
more notes all these options that could
be helped
yeah always more even just there's this
other set issue I just posted these in
the chat in the zoom chat there's the
issue a fourth
you have been gradually updating and
then there's a new discussion on
discourse about it so just toss in some
sort of reference point or suggestion
for the people who are trying to build
stuff this week what should they do
rather than because if you read those
threads and you read big the github
issue it sort of feels like well you
just gotta wait until you've removed all
those dependencies when I think they are
June they actually do have options for
building stuff is just not clear what
their options are
okay okay I'll will like these Crabbie's
three options here that I just shared
medium thank you
and and Dimitri just turned in same it
on IRC saying he's also got this on his
radar is something to work on yeah
that's correct
yeah so this was my a big thank you
I promise up interesting as always thank
you okay if there's any last words from
anybody No
okay then I'm gonna call the meeting
adjourned and see you on IRC or on the
Disco's forum or in github issues or at
the same place in a week right or on the
I'll be back Thursday
yeah marques word okay everybody